We'll now switch to Claude Code and use skills for code generation, reviewing, and testing. We'll also set up sub-agents and equip them with skills. Let's have some fun. So far we've seen how to use skills in Claude AI and using the Claude messages API. Now let's talk about how to use skills in Claude Code in a bit more depth. The application that I'm using is a command line application for creating to-dos that need to be completed and listing them, and eventually editing and clearing. I'm going to show the CLAUDE.md file to give you a sense of what this project does. And now we're going to do a little demo before we jump into each of the individual files. In Claude code, you have the ability
to create a claude.md file. This file is created using
the /init command or manually by the user. This file is always in your context
and specific to your project. This is where you can specify
general instructions about the code base project
you're working on, technology stack, and things that Claude needs to know
in every single conversation. So again, we're building a command line task management application using Python, Typer as our CLI framework, using dataclasses, Rich, we're storing information in a JSON file for persistence, and using uv for dependency management. Our architecture follows according to this pattern. We've got our entry point and all of our commands get their own individual Python file. We set up our data class in our models.py our logic for storing, serializing, deserializing in our storage.py, and then to display things nicely in the terminal, our display.py. We have a couple constants and then our tests. We can see in this file, we have our Priority, our Task as Data Models, how data is persisted. And remember again for this CLAUDE.md, this is data that is always available in context in every conversation that we have. This is useful information to help Claude figure out where to find things and how best to structure information. So with that in mind, let's hop in and play around with this application. First, I'm going to go ahead and activate the virtual environment. So I'll source .venv then activate. Once I've got that set up, make sure my dependencies are in order with uv sync. And once I've done that, I can actually start using this task command directly in the command line. If I take a look at the command, I see I have commands like add and done and list, as well as some additional options. So let's go ahead and take a look at the tasks that I have right here. Right now, I have none of them that are found. I'll clear the terminal so I can start from the top. Let's go ahead and add a task. Right here, we'll call this write the final report. and we'll give this a priority of high and we'll give this a date to be done with the following. We can see here I've added that successfully, so let's go take a look. We've got our task right there. our display.py doing some nice formatting of that information. Now let's go ahead and complete it. I'll go ahead and mark that as done with the correct ID. And then if I go ahead and take a look at my list, I can see with that flag that I have this task that is done. The plan for this lesson here is to add another command line command for edit. So we're going to have to go to src to task and add another command here for editing. But we also want to make sure that when we add these additional commands, we're following the correct workflow. We're following a proper way of adding commands the right way to pattern match a bit of what we've done in this code base. In order to do so, we're going to be using a skill here that we've added called adding CLI command. Skills are defined inside of a .claude folder followed by a folder called skills. When we take a look at this skill, first not only we can see that this is available at the project level. We can also create skills at the user level in our home directory if we'd like as well. For this example, we'll be focusing in project specific skills. So let's dive into what's happening for this particular skill. Just like we saw before, we have a name and a description, and here we're going to really lean into the particular coding styles and functionality that we want when creating new commands. We're going to start by identifying the workflow necessary and creating files in the appropriate directories. Just like we have commands for add and done and list, we want to make sure that when we make new files for commands, it lives there. We also want to make sure that these commands are registered in our __init__.py file that lives in the command folder. When we think about how to create different commands, there may be lots of different kinds. There may be commands that involve subcommands or flags or additional arguments. You can provide plain text instructions to Claude, but especially for coding examples, Claude does really well when you tell it exactly what pattern and style you want to follow. In the Typer library, there are many different ways of accomplishing particular tasks. For example, there are many different ways of adding type annotations to arguments that are being decorated. In this particular case, this is the convention we want to follow as it's a little bit more modern. You can imagine in libraries and code bases that you use, there are many different ways of doing things. But what's useful about skills is it gives us that predictable workflow for a set of tasks. We also want to make sure we're using this display object here and calling methods like success and info to make sure that when we add a command, we're not only executing the business logic, but displaying the correct information to the user at the end. When we work with flags, we want particular shorthand, we want particular longer ways of addressing it. We want to make sure that there's help text as well. All of these pieces, type annotations, default arguments, certain return values, are valuable to add in your skill so that you know how best to pattern match and follow predictable workflows. As we think about commands with subcommands, not only can you see here how we want to structure individual commands, but also how we want to display when things like migrations or versions are changed. As we imagine commands that might be destructive, as we start adding functionality to clear, we might want to specify what kind of delete we're doing. If we choose to do a hard delete, we want to make sure that we confirm before we go ahead and delete that particular task. This pattern can be followed as Claude starts to see additional commands that might need to involve some kind of deletion. As we think about registering, we want to be intentional about how to add single commands and command groups. So not only are we giving Claude instructions for how to register commands, we're being very specific with what conventions to follow. And finally, as we talk about conventions, here's where we can lean into requirements on our doc strings, being mindful of exit codes and following constants that we have, being mindful of commands that are destructive. This is a really useful place so that when we build our predictable workflows, we know exactly what conventions we're following. These are not conventions that have to exist everywhere in the code base and have to be loaded everywhere in context. If so, we could put them in the CLAUDE.md. But in this case, just for adding individual commands, there's a subset of conventions to follow. Let's only load those when necessary. And not only are we using generic naming like CLI app, we can use this skill across any platform that follows the agent skills convention. And depending on whatever CLI you're building, if you want Claude to follow these particular patterns, this skill can easily be adapted to do that. Now that we have a skill for adding CLI commands, let's also make sure that when we start to do this particular workflow of adding commands, we're being mindful of testing and also validating the commands that we write. This is another great use case for another skill. In our second skill, for generating CLI tests, we generate pytest tests for Typer commands. We include here what kinds of fixtures we want, how to handle edge cases, and this is really important that we add what to do and how to trigger this particular skill. You can see here, use when the user asks to write tests, for my CLI or add test coverage. It's always important to be very explicit not only in what the description is, but how Claude can detect how to run it. Similar to other skills, we specify the workflow that we want. When writing tests, it's often best practice to leverage fixtures. You can think of fixtures as information that is run each time as you arrange your tests to set up information, to set up dummy data, as well as any kind of mocking or test infrastructure that you need for each of the tests that you write. For example here, we specify what our temporary storage might look like and we specify what some sample data might look like. As we run each of these tests, this information will be exposed to allow us to arrange and set up the tests necessary when we test individual files, folders, and workflows. As we take a look at the test structure, we're following a pattern of arranging like we mentioned with our fixtures, invoking some kind of action, and then asserting that the result is the case. Right here, we're simply trying to build patterns that Claude can use and follow when this skill is leveraged. We can continue on with how we want this test runner to be done. and how to test scenarios by a command type. As we read, as we add, here are examples for what we want our test to look like. As with many testing libraries, there are lots of ways to accomplish a similar kind of task. For these examples, here is the pattern we want to follow. As we wrap towards the end of this skill, we want to think a little bit about edge cases to cover. When writing tests, we want to think about invalid input, any kind of state, confirmation, or what happens when things are not found or don't exist. We want to make sure that we're following a checklist as well when we go ahead and write our tests. And then finally, to make sure we're running tests correctly, providing the correct commands as well as how to run in a verbose mode and for specific files. The last skill that we have here is to wrap up and review and make sure that we're executing the commands as expected. Once we've generated the tests and the tests are running, let's make sure we're following the correct conventions. Just like we saw with other skills, there are ways in which we can execute the task necessary and then come back and validate that things are working as expected. As we think about reviewing these commands, not only do we think about the underlying structure, is this in the right location? Is this using the right decorator? Is this registered correctly? But we're also making sure that some of those practices we wanted around type annotations or options for parameters or flags when possible, always are included. It's often helpful to provide positive and negative examples. So as we mentioned, using this Annotated type versus a different kind of way to type your arguments. As we think more about error handling and output, we make sure that this checklist exists so that the skill can go through and confirm that all of these pieces are as expected. We're not telling Claude how to perform these actions like adding commands and generating tests. We're making sure that it's working as expected. You can think of this like an evaluation almost for the other skills that we have and including this skill as part of our workflow. As we take a look at the bottom, making sure that our best practices are followed, as well as examples of mistakes we might see and fixes for those. As we take a look at the output format of the skill, we want to make sure that all of our checklist is addressed, including a summary and suggested fixes. It's very useful to have this underlying review so that when features are finished, we can start by taking a look at this review, include this even as part of our code review, make sure we're building production grade features, backed by tests, following best practices. With that in mind, let's start to put all of these skills together. The first thing we're going to do here is to add a new command that allows us to edit individual tasks. We're going to want to make sure we edit the title and priority and pass in an ID that is valid. Now, let's hop into Claude Code and use these skills. To make sure that I've registered these correctly, I'm first going to just type in /skills. This is going to list the available skills that I have to me. These are project skills. We also mentioned we can add skills in our home directory, but right now we're just dealing with project skills. We can also see the amount of tokens that these skills are taking as we just think about the name and description necessary. When you create a new skill in Claude Code, you want to make sure that you close Claude Code and open it up again so that skill can be identified. So if you find yourself looking at your list of skills but you're missing the one that you might have just created, make sure to close that instance of Claude Code, open it up again and you should be in good shape. Now that our skills are loaded correctly, let's go ahead and add a new edit command to allow users to edit the title and priority. We're adding a little example here and ensuring that we follow the conventions for creating a new CLI command. So let's give this a shot. We can see here that Claude Code is prompting to use the adding-cli-command skill. And that's great. We'll go ahead and make sure that in the future, it doesn't prompt us to do so. We can see here, we're going to read the existing files and storage to understand the convention, as well as take a look at examples of other commands for reference. Now that we know the conventions, let's go ahead and create that particular file. We can see here there's a new file edit.py being created, and we're going to go ahead and make that change. We'll see here edit.py appears and we're now going to register that command, following the order that the skill has set out for us. We can see here that the command is being registered inside of our __init__.py as expected. We're going to go ahead and make that change as well. So we'll go ahead and let it proceed and run this command to test out and make sure it's working as expected. Looks like we're seeing what we expect and that's in good shape. So now going to run the add command and then go ahead and run the list to make sure we've added successfully. It's seeding some data so that we can then make sure the edit command works as expected. We'll go ahead and edit that particular task. And we'll see here that we didn't specify a title or priority. We'll then go ahead and put in that title. And here, we'll see that edited as expected. It's going to ask me again to edit this task, and this is going to happen over and over as we start to test all kinds of examples. And while I could proceed over and over again, we can imagine that this might start to fill up the context window quite a bit, and if this were a larger scale system, maybe very time intensive and even compute intensive. So what we're going to do here is something slightly different. We're going to leverage the functionality that Claude Code has for using sub-agents. We're going to have one sub-agent to review code and follow the criteria so that the main agent can focus on the development. We're then going to have another sub-agent to generate and run the tests using the skill that we have. What's going to be useful about this is that we can have the main agent focus on development, while sub-agents in their own context window focus on generating the tests and reviewing the code. We can then take the feedback and tests generated, bring it back to the main agent, with a much more context-efficient approach. It's important to note that sub-agents do not inherit skills from a parent, so we need to be explicit with the skills that we give to each sub-agent that we make. There are multiple ways of passing skills to sub-agents. One way we're going to show you is being explicit with the name of the skill in the sub-agent. Another option that we'll link in the notes is where you can provide the exact agent name and how best to run it from the skill directly. With that in mind, let's go ahead and create our sub-agents. The first agent we're going to make is our code reviewer. And we're going to create these agents using the /agents command. We're going to create a new agent. We're going to do that on a project basis, but instead of generating with Claude, we're going to follow a manual configuration so you can see what it looks like to add a name, description, tools, and the most importantly, skills for each of our agents. The first one I'll make, we'll call code-reviewer. This will be the unique identifier for our agent, and then we'll pass a prompt to it. We're going to paste in a prompt that we'll take a look at once we've created this, but it's going to look very familiar to how we review and how we're specific and actionable in the insights we make when doing the code review. We're going to go ahead and give this agent a description for when it should go ahead and be used. We're going to review for code quality, security, and so on. We're going to try to make this agent as generic as possible for the set of tools that we want here. We want to be very specific with the tools that our sub-agent has access to. So we'll make sure that if there's code that needs to be executed, we give it Bash, Glob and grep for finding files, and Read to read underlying files that we're going to be reviewing. Once we've selected these tools, we can go ahead and continue. We'll decide to inherit from the parent with the model that we use. And we'll go ahead and give this a color of purple. Once we've got this set up, we'll go ahead and save this agent. We can see here now in our agents folder that we have a code reviewer agent to work with. We've got the code reviewer, a description, tools, and all the wonderful pieces that we added. It's now time to make sure we specify the skills that we want this sub-agent to use. We'll do that using the skills field and specify the name of the skill that we're working with. In our case, reviewing-cli-command. Before we create our next agent, let's do a quick review of what we made here. Our agent has a name and description, tools available, a model that we inherit, a color, and skills that we brought in. We can add multiple skills, but right now we're going to stick with one. In our prompt, we mention it's a code reviewer ensuring high standards. As we specify what this agent is, we specify when it's invoked, general quality checks. If we're working with Python, how to be intentional, CLI commands the same way, and a particular output format. Like we mentioned, this agent is a bit more generic. And while we're using it in the context of our specific application, skills can help us be more particular. But this agent might need to be used across a different variety of applications, so we want to be a little bit more generic with what we're trying to do here. It's important to note that skills operate slightly differently as sub-agents in Claude Code. When this sub-agent is dispatched and created, the skill is not only loading the name and description, but the entire SKILL.md The skills are pre-loaded when the agent is dispatched. If there is additional progressive disclosure, reading of other files or other commands, that is not done. but the entire SKILL.md is read when the sub-agent is dispatched. Now that we've got our code reviewer agent, let's add another agent for generating and running our tests. Let's go ahead and make our second agent. We're going to go create a new agent in our project using the manual configuration. and we'll call that test-generator-runner. We're going to go ahead and add a prompt here that we'll review a little bit later, but it's going to follow similar patterns to what we saw with the other agent that we made. We'll go ahead and specify a description for this agent, where we'll specify that it should run tests and generate them if missing. When the user asks to test or run tests, let's go ahead and make sure that this agent is dispatched. Like we saw before, instead of giving access to all tools, let's go to our advanced options. In our advanced options, we're going to go ahead and disable all of our tools. and here we'll make sure we have a Bash tool, Glob and Grep, Read as well. But we're also going to need to Edit and Write individual files, and in our case, Edit files that may already exist. Once we've got these tools set up, let's move on, talk a little bit about the model we're going to be using. Just like before, we'll inherit from the parent and we'll go ahead and use yellow for this sub-agent. This looks good to us, so we'll go ahead and save it. Once we've created this agent, we also want to make sure we specify what skills are being used. In this case, the skills that we're going to be using is the generating-cli-tests skill. Again, we could add multiple skills, but in this case, we're just going to use that individual one. As we saw before, We specify when it's invoked, we show how to discover tests and the output format that we want, and then some underlying rules to make sure that things are working as expected. And just like our other agent, to be a little bit more generic and lean on skills to provide consistent workflows. Now that we've created our sub-agents and our skills, let's put this all together to make sure that when we add new commands, we dispatch sub-agents when necessary, using the skills that we want. Let's go ahead and start by using our code-reviewer subagent to review the edit.py command that we made. This should not only dispatch the subagent, but also make use of the skill that we provided to that subagent. we're going to see here that the code reviewer agent has been dispatched. And now we're going to go ahead and use the necessary skills and tools that we've defined. We can see here what's working and what's not working. No critical results, but we've got some warnings. issues to fix and suggested fixes. We can go ahead and use the main agent to implement those if we'd like. We're then going to use our test runner sub agent to generate the tests for our edit.py command. So we'll go ahead and make sure that we're referencing the edit.py file and go ahead and dispatch the second sub-agent. We can see here it's generated the necessary commands and it's prompting me to make sure that we want to make this edit. So we'll go ahead and do so as we add tests for editing. I can confirm that these tests are working using this command uv run. And then we'll go ahead and run all of our tests with verbose mode to make sure things are passing and there are no regressions. Once this is done, we can see that all of our tests are passing, none are failing, and here's a summary as well. We made use of two different sub-agents, leveraging multiple skills, and as we start to add more features and functionality, we can put these all together. The next thing we're going to do is see our code reviewer sub agent and our test runner sub agent in action. Let's imagine there's a clear.py file, a new command that's been added by someone on the team who hasn't followed best practices and maybe didn't use all the skills and infrastructure that we set up. We're going to go ahead and use our code reviewer sub agent as well as our test runner sub agent to figure out how best to fix the clear.py file. We're going to dispatch our code reviewer to review the clear.py command. then we're going to use our test generator runner to generate the test necessary for this command. We'll validate finally that things are working as expected, and make sure all the tests are passing and following the best practices that we've standardized. We can see here there are quite a few issues and some warnings. Now that we found these issues, let's make sure that the main agent is reading the files and fixing them. We're going to want to make sure that we allow for these edits to clear.py. And here we can see things like displaying things to the console are done using the correct methods like display as mentioned in our best practices. We also want to make sure that we're registering this command correctly inside of our __init__.py The main agent itself is not adding additional context for the reviewing and generating tests. It's simply taking the output of the sub-agent to better execute these tasks. Next up, it's time to generate tests for the clear command that is following our best practices. We can see here it's adding a file to test this clear command. Let's go ahead and approve that. Now that we've created this file, let's go ahead and run the tests, make sure they're working as expected. And now we can get a summary of what's been completed. Six critical issues, four warnings, and all of them fixed. Instead of using incorrect methods, instead of using flags that are not the right format that we want, incorrect exit codes, we fixed quite a few different issues. We've then added tests on top of that to make sure that we're confirming that all these best practices are done as expected, and the functionality is working that we like. In the next lesson, we'll shift away from Claude Code and move to the Claude Agent SDK and showcase how to use skills when building your own agents using the same harness that Claude Code uses.