A major decision when building a RAG application is which LLM you'll use. There's a huge variety of LLMs available, with different levels of performance, unique capabilities, and different cost profiles. Choosing the right one can have a big impact on your application's speed, quality, and budget. So let's have a look at how you can make the choice that best fits your project. Let's start with some easily quantifiable differences between LLMs. Model size is a frequently quoted metric, usually measured by how many billions of parameters the model has. Small models may have between 1 and 10 billion parameters, while larger models have 100 to 500 billion, and possibly more. Larger models are typically, but not always, more capable than their smaller counterparts, but they're always more expensive to run. Cost is of course an important factor. LLM providers typically charge you for a fixed price per million tokens, sometimes with different prices for input and output tokens. You can generally expect newer, larger, and more capable models to cost more. The context window of a model tells you the maximum number of tokens an LLM can process, split between both the prompt and the completion. While large limits offer more flexibility to have long prompts and completions, you still pay per token. The time to first token, and speed, as expressed in tokens per second, is another important factor. If your RAG system depends on real-time interactions, you might be willing to tolerate worse performance in other areas for a fast and low-latency model. The training cutoff date, or knowledge cutoff date, of a model tells you the last point in time represented in a model's training data. Even in a RAG system, a later cutoff is typically considered preferable, especially in contexts where a model will need to respond to questions on recent events. While easily quantifiable metrics might help narrow down which models you consider, usually you care most about the quality of a model, which can be a lot harder to quantify. Quality here means everything from an LLM's ability to reason through complex math problems, to simply producing text that's pleasant to read. To help compare models across all these different dimensions of quality, there is a dizzying array of LLM benchmarks available that try to score and compare LLMs. There's no single authoritative list of benchmarks that you can turn to, but understanding the variety of options available can help you choose the benchmark that makes the most sense for your project. Benchmarks come in three high-level varieties, automated benchmarks, human scoring, and LLM as a judge. Automated benchmarks score LLMs on tasks that can be assessed with code. A classic format for this kind of benchmark might be a multiple choice test on a particular field of interest, or a series of mathematical or coding challenges where the LLM's responses can be easily validated by a computer. A good example benchmark here is MMLU, or Massive Multitask Language Understanding, which covers 57 subjects ranging from STEM to humanities to law using multiple choice tests. Other benchmarks test LLMs on everything from math problems to common sense reasoning questions. You'll frequently see LLM providers market their model's performance on these benchmarks, and can likely find the one that is relevant to your project. Human-evaluated benchmarks typically work by having two anonymous LLMs respond to the same prompt and asking human evaluators to choose which response they prefer. These results are fed to the same ELO algorithm used to rank chess players, resulting in a comparative leaderboard of LLMs. A popular host of this type of rating system is called LLM Arena, whose rankings are one of the most widely cited LLM benchmarks. These human-graded rankings capture nuanced quality factors that automated benchmarks can't easily measure. While automated and human-graded metrics will often agree, when their scores diverge, it can highlight important nuances in model performance. LLM-as-a-judge benchmarks use one LLM to rate another LLM's responses to a collection of test questions. The judge LLM has access to a set of reference answers, and essentially just determines how often the LLM being evaluated provides an answer that is close to the correct one. This gives you a win rate that can be used to compare one LLM versus another. LLM-as-a-judge's primary upside is that it's a relatively cheap and flexible way to evaluate LLMs. One downside of this approach is that the judge needs to be carefully calibrated because they have a tendency to prefer answers from their own family of language models. For example, GPT models from OpenAI will prefer other GPT models. Gemini models from Google will prefer other Gemini models. By recalibrating these off-the-shelf models, it's possible to diminish this bias. Good benchmarks have a few qualities. First, they're relevant to your project. If your application won't ever generate code, comparing LLMs on a code generation benchmark isn't much help. Next, benchmarks need to be difficult to do a good job differentiating between high and low performing models. If every model scores well on a benchmark, it's just not that useful. Benchmarks should be reproducible, meaning the scores themselves don't change drastically between testing runs, and the outcomes quoted by the model providers should be verifiable. Benchmarks should also align with real-world performance. An LLM that does well on a programming benchmark should actually write good code in practice. Here, you may need to do some reading on developer forums to ensure benchmark scores are a good indication of actual performance. A reason this problem can arise is data contamination. Large language models are trained on billions, if not trillions of tokens scraped from the internet. It's possible that the data set used by the benchmark are included in that training data. In this case, the language model might overperform on that benchmark because it's already seen the exact questions and answers during its training. While benchmarks can help you differentiate between models, they also just highlight how rapidly the field as a whole is evolving. Here's the general pattern you'll see repeated for most LLM evals. At first, the average score for each is quite low. Then, over only a few years, it becomes commonplace for models to perform on par with human experts. These benchmarks are called saturated, meaning they no longer help differentiate between models, as almost all advanced models score near the maximum. At that point, new and more challenging benchmarks need to be introduced to meaningfully measure improvements in performance. Those new evals will quickly become saturated themselves, however, and even newer ones will need to be introduced. The main takeaway here is that models released today are usually significantly better than models from even a couple of years ago, and that any model you choose today likely will need to be replaced as more capable models are rapidly introduced. Choosing the right LLM is an important but temporary decision for how you design your RAC system. Easily quantifiable factors like cost or latency can help narrow down your choice, and a wide variety of quality metrics can point you towards the best models to align with your use case. Thanks to the speed at which models are improving, you should plan on eventually swapping in newly released models that suit your RAC system.