In order to get the most out of your large language model, you'll need to write a high quality prompt. Prompt engineering is an umbrella term for a variety of prompting techniques that tend to lead to higher quality results. Let's explore a few prompt engineering techniques and talk about how they can be used to improve the overall performance of your RAG system. To start, it's helpful to understand how you'll actually build out prompts in code. The most common format is OpenAI's messages format, which structures prompts as a series of messages using a simple JSON structure. A single message will have content, which is just the text of the message, as well as a role, which will either be system, user, or assistant. System messages are provided to the LLM to influence its overall behavior and usually include high-level instructions. User messages record prompts that a user of the system has already sent. Assistant messages record responses previously generated by the LLM. When you have an extended back-and-forth conversation with an LLM, also called a multi-turn conversation, it's not actually remembering what you said earlier. Instead, behind the scenes, the entire conversation is converted into this messages format, with your new user message appearing at the end. And then, the entire conversation is submitted to the LLM with every new user prompt. The JSON messages object is then turned into a single text string that can be processed by the LLM. This chat template string uses special text tags, like arrows or vertical bars, to indicate the start and end of each message. LLMs are trained to recognize these tags and understand the difference between system, user, and assistant messages. This format is very flexible and allows you to add a wide variety of context to your prompts to help control how your LLM responds. Let's look at a few ways you can use it. The first thing you'll want to do when constructing a prompt for your RAG system is write your system prompt. This provides your LLM high-level instructions on how it should behave. If you always want your LLM to speak in a particular tone or follow certain procedures, a system prompt is where that information should go. To get some ideas of what can go into a system prompt, have a look at this system prompt from a popular LLM chatbot. The first thing that jumps out at you is the length. It's huge! You might not always need to write multiple page system prompts, but knowing you have the flexibility to do so is a good reminder. Early in the prompt, there is information on the knowledge cutoff of the model's training data, as well as the current date. Information like this helps the LLM determine how out-of-date its information is and whether it's in a good position to answer certain questions. Later sections direct the LLM on the process and tone it should use to respond to the prompt. For example, it asks the model to reason through answers step-by-step, not help with potentially harmful requests, and respond in markdown. The LLM is also told that it is intellectually curious and enjoys hearing what humans think on an issue and engaging in discussion on a wide variety of topics, which gives the LLM a particular personality, so to speak. You could use these same principles to construct your own system prompt. For example, you could instruct your LLM to respond in great detail or answer questions succinctly. Given you're constructing a system prompt for a RAG application, you could tell the language model to use only the retrieved documents to answer prompts, or judge whether a document is relevant, or cite sources in its response. System prompts are usually added to every prompt your LLM will process, so spending time refining them is a great way to improve the style and quality of the results your RAG system ultimately generates. At this point, you're ready to build your augmented prompt. This prompt potentially includes many pieces of information, so it's helpful to build a well-considered prompt template. A template sets out the high-level structure of your prompt and helps decide where certain pieces of content will be injected. For example, you might always start with a high-level system prompt that provides high-level guidance to the system about how it should behave. If your system supports multi-turn conversations, you can include previous messages sent between the user and the LLM. Next, you might add the top 5 or top 10 chunks retrieved by your retriever, as well as any information about how to process them. Finally, you can include the most recent user prompt the LLM should respond to. Here's what a prompt constructed from this template could look like. The nice thing about using a template like this is that it makes it easy to experiment with different prompt structures. You can modify individual components of the overall prompt and see how that impacts the final generated response. This is what it looks like to construct a typical prompt in a RAG system, combining a well-written system prompt, retrieved context, previous conversation details, and of course, the most recent user prompt. Join me in the next video and let's look at some advanced techniques to further improve how the LLM performs.