Welcome back. This week we'll start by taking a
look at the role of generative AI in
business and then after that and its
impact on society, for example, its impact on jobs. We'll start by
looking at how people in many different job
roles can already use the web user interfaces to access generative AI in
the day to day work. After that, we'll take a look at a systematic framework for analyzing a business to identify opportunities to use
generative AI to augment or to automate different
tasks in the business, maybe in your business to
identify where building or buying an LLM based software
application might add value. Let's dive in. As
you've seen previously, an LLM can be a pretty
good writing assistant or copy editor. If you ask it to
rewrite a piece of text to be suitable for a
professional business report, you'll often do a
pretty good job. I use it pretty often
myself for this purpose, although I will double check its output before using
it in my own writing. Because generative AI is a
general purpose technology, I'm seeing also
that it's used by many different people in
many different job roles. For example, marketers are using it to help
brainstorm ideas. If you ask it, help
me brainstorm and email campaign to
reactivate lost users, then it might come up with ideas for email campaigns like this. If you want, you can even
ask it further details of what a we miss you email campaign might
look like and so on. Or if you're a recruiter, I've seen recruiters use
LLMs to summarize reviews. Here it says summarize
the finally review of a job candidate in
50 or fewer words. It does usually a
pretty decent job. Although again, I would
recommend double checking a summary before using
and fully relying on it. But LLMs are pretty good
at summarizing text. For programmers or software
engineers as well, LLMs turn out to
sometimes be helpful at writing an initial draft
of some types of code. Write Python code to calculate something fairly technical. In this case, the LLM generates
a correct piece of code. But once again, it actually
often generates buggy code. When I'm using this for
software developments, I will often end up
having to fix it. But it's helpful to get a
programmer started on a task. People doing many different
types of job roles are already finding LLMs useful
in their day to day work. I find myself often using an LLM as a thought partner to help
me think things through. I hope that you too will find it useful in your
day to day work. When you look across
an organization, what are the most
valuable opportunities for using generative
AI technology? Or for even trying to build or buy software applications
built using LLMs. In the next video, we'll
start to take a look at the framework of
looking at jobs, and tasks done by
an organization to try to identify
such opportunities. Let's take a look at
that in the next video.