We've looked at how generative AI
may be useful to your work and also talked about analyzing
its impact on a business. Let's now zoom out and take a look at
its impact on job roles across different companies as well as its impact
on different industry sectors. The results from this video may
be less directly actionable for a particular business, but maybe this
will help you to think through and try to forecast some of the large macro
changes that may take place over time. Let's dive in. A study by Eloundou and others at OpenAI
and the University of Pennsylvania, examined how much different job
occupations are exposed to AI, augmentation, or automation. That study resulted in this graph
showing that higher wage jobs tend to be more exposed to AI augmentation
or automation than lower wage jobs. In this graph, which has a slightly
funny horizontal axis, because it's on a log scale, we plot salaries ranging from
about 30K up to about 163k like this. And the vertical axis measures
the degree to which these jobs are exposed to automation. Earlier waves of automation tended to
have lower wage jobs more exposed, because AI could do more of the routine,
repetitive work. So supervised learning, for example, tended to automate more
of the lower wage jobs. But large language models and
generative AI more broadly, are exposing in this wave the higher
wage occupations to automation. And we'll say more later this week as well
about the impact of generative AI on jobs. Let's look at a second
study due to McKinsey, which carries out an analysis
by functional row. So this graph plots different functions
that tries to estimate how much will sales be impacted,
how much will marketing be impacted, how much will customer operations,
including customer service, be impacted. The vertical axis here, shows the total
impact in terms of billions of dollars. And so, the points in the upper
portion of this graph, correspond to the functional rows where
the total value of the impact will be large in terms of
total number of dollars. The horizontal axis, measures the impact
as a percentage of the functional spend. So customer operations,
according to this study, will have a very large absolute dollar
value impact, maybe around $400 billion. I would take the exact numbers not too
seriously since these are frankly loose estimates, but the total dollar value
seems like it will be large because generative AI is automating or
augmenting a lot of customer service. Moreover, as a percentage of all
the spending on customer operations, generative AI impact will
be pretty large as well, maybe approaching 40% of the total
spend on customer operations. In contrast, it will also have hundreds
of billions of dollars impact on sales. But as a percentage of the total
spend on sales, it is much smaller. And the McKinsey study also estimates that
these yellow dots shown on top together, might represent 75% of the total
annual impact of generative AI, and it will be a significant impact. Now, this isn't to say that if you work
in some of these other functions you shouldn't pay attention to generative AI. For example, if you work in the legal
function and generative AI will impact 15% to 20% of the functional spend on legal,
that's still a significant shift for the industry,
even if the total spend on lawyers, on legal services is not nearly as big as
the total spend on sales, or marketing, or software engineering and so on. But if the McKinsey study is correct, then
these are some of the functional roles across many different companies that will
have a huge impact through generative AI. Lastly, let's take a look at its
estimated impact by industry sector. So McKinsey had carried a study on
the potential of AI automation with and without generative AI. And we re-plotted the McKinsey data
to show the impact of generative AI only on automation, leaving out other
forms of AI such as supervised learning. Some of the sectors impacted include,
educator and workforce training, business and legal professions,
STEM professionals and so on. And one remarkable thing about this
data is that there are sectors that were not highly exposed to
automation before generative AI. But with the rise of generative
AI is now seeing a much greater potential of automation or
augmentation. And so depending on what sector or
sectors you either work in or work with, perhaps this type of analysis may give you
a sense of what may happen in industries that you touch as well. If you look at the top few lines on this
graph, one theme that pervades both this as well as other studies is that, it looks
like a lot of the impact of generative AI, will be on knowledge workers. Meaning, workers who generate value
primarily through their knowledge, including their expertise, their critical
thinking, and their interpersonal skills. This is in contrast to, say,
workers that create value mainly from performing physical tasks
rather than knowledge tasks. This wraps up our section on
generative AI and business. There are lots of opportunities for
individuals, businesses, and for society. The huge impact of generative AI is
also raising questions about how generative AI will affect society. And has also made some people anxious
about what the future will be like for them in the world with these
amazing AI capabilities. Let's go on to the next video to
examine how AI is impacting society as well as how we can mitigate risk and how
we can build beneficial, responsible AI. I'll see you at the next video.