Thanks for sticking with me for this final optional video
on image generation. So far this week
we'll focus most of attention on text generation. Text generation is what a lot
of users are using and is having the biggest impact of all the different tools
of generative AI. But part of the excitement of generative AI is also
image generation. They're also starting
to be some models that can generate
either text or images, and these are sometimes
called multimodal models, because it can operate
in multiple modalities, text, or images. What I'd like to do in this
video is share with you how image generation
works. Let's take a look. With just a prompt, you can use generative
AI to generate a beautiful picture of a
person that had never existed, or a picture of a
futuristic scene, or a picture of a
cool robot like this. How does this technology work? Image generation today is mostly done via a method called
a diffusion model. Diffusion models
have learned from huge numbers of images found on the Internet
or elsewhere. It turns out that
at the heart of a diffusion model is supervised learning.
Here's what it does. Let's say the algorithm
finds a picture on the Internet of an
apple like this, and it wants to learn
from pictures like this and hundreds of millions of others how to generate images. The first step is
to take this image, and gradually add more
and more noise to it. You go from this nice picture
of an apple, to a noisier, to an even noisier, to finally a picture that
looks like pure noise. Where all the pixels
are chosen at random and it doesn't look
at all like an apple. The diffusion model then
uses pictures like these as data to learn using
supervised learning, to take as input, a noisy image and output a
slightly less noisy image. Specifically, it would
create a dataset where, the first data point says if it's given the
second input image, what we want the supervised
learning algorithm to do is learn to output a cleaner
version of this apple. Here's another data point, given this third image of
an even noisier image, we would like the
algorithm to learn to output a slightly less
noisy version like this. Finally, given an image of pure noise like
this fourth image, we would like it
to learn to output a slightly less noisy picture here that suggests the
presence of an apple. After training on maybe
hundreds of millions of images, viral process like this, when you want to apply it
to generate a new image, this is how you would run it. You will start off with
a pure noise image. Start by taking a picture where, every single pixel
in the picture is chosen completely at random. We then feed this picture to the supervised
learning algorithm that we trained up on
the previous line. When we feed in pure noise, it learns to remove a little bit of noise from this picture, and you may end up with
a picture like this that suggests some sort
of fruit in the middle, but we're not quite
sure what it is yet. Given the second picture, we
again feed it to the model, and it then takes away even
a little bit more noise, and now it looks like we can see a noisy picture
of a watermelon. Then if you apply
this one more time, we end up with
this fourth image, which looks like a pretty
nice picture of a watermelon. I'm illustrating
this process using four steps of adding noise
on the previous slide, and four steps of removing
noise on this slide. But in practice,
maybe about 100 steps will be more typical
for a diffusion model. This algorithm will work for generating pictures
completely at random. But we want to be able to control the image
it generates by specifying a prompt to tell it what we want it to generate. Let me describe a
modification of the algorithm that
lets you add text, or add a prompt to tell it
what you want it to generate. In this training data, we're given pictures
like this apple, as well as a description or a prompt that could have
generated this apple. Here, I have a text description saying this is a red apple. Then we will same as before, add noise to this picture
until we get the fourth image, which is pure noise. But we're going to change how we build the learning
algorithm, which is, rather than inputting the
slightly noisy picture and expecting it to
generate a clean picture, we'll instead have the input A, to the supervised
learning algorithm B, this noisy picture, as well as the text caption or the prompt that
could have generated this picture, namely red apple. Given this input, we
want the algorithm to output this clean
picture of an apple. Similarly, we'll generate
additional data points for the algorithm using the
other noisy images. Where each time,
given a noisy image, and the text prompt red apple, we want the algorithm
to learn to generate a less noisy picture
of a red apple. Having learned from
a large dataset, when you want to apply this
algorithm to generating, say, a green banana,
this is what you do. Same as before, we start off with an image of pure noise. Every single pixel is chosen
completely at random. If you wanted to
generate a green banana, you input to the supervised
learning algorithm, that picture of
pure noise together with the prompt, "green banana". Now that it knows you
want a green banana, hopefully the ovum will output a picture that maybe
looks like this. Can't see the banana
that clearly, but maybe there's
a suggestion of some greenish fruit
in the middle, and this is the first
step of image generation. The next step is, we then
take this image on the right, there was an output B, and feed that is the
input A, with again, the prompt "Green banana" to get it to generate a slightly
less noisy picture, and now we see clearly, looks like there's
a green banana, but a pretty noisy one. We do this one more time and it finally removes
most of the noise, until we end up
with that picture of a pretty nice green banana. That's how diffusion models
work for generating images. At the heart of this
magical process of generating beautiful images is, again, supervised learning. Thanks for sticking with me
for this optional video, and I look forward to
seeing you next week where, we'll dive much more into applications being built
using generative AI. I'll see you in the next video.