Welcome to
the final video of this week. I'd like to share with you in this video
how LLMs are starting to be able to use tools and then also discuss a cutting
edge topic of agents, which is where we let LLMs try to decide for themselves
what action they want to take next. Let's take a look. In the early example of a food order
taking chatbot, we saw that if you were to say send me a burger,
the bot may reply okay is on the way. In order for a chatbot to enter
the order and send it to you. This is what actually is
happening behind the scenes. The LLM can't just say OK is on
its way because it needs to take some action to actually
send the burger to you. And so an LLM might output
this response order burger for user 9876 to send to this address and then also say the user message
is to say OK, is on its way. An LLM that's been fine tuned to
output text like this will be able to generate an order which in this
case would trigger a software application that passes
the restaurant ordering system a request to deliver a burger
to this user at that address. And what is shown to the user
is not the full LLM output. The full LLM output is all four lines
of text here, but only the final line OK is on its way is what gets
sent to the user as the response. So this is an example of tool used
by an LLM, where detects the LLM outputs can trigger calling a software
system to place a restaurant order. Now, placing an incorrect
order can be a costly mistake. So perhaps a better user interface
would be, before finalizing the order to pop up a verification dialog to let
the user confirm yes or no if you've got the order right before charging
the credit card and sending it to them. And clearly, given that LLM's outputs
are not completely reliable for any safety critical or
mission critical action, it would be a good idea to let a user
confirm the desire action before letting the LLM trigger some
potentially costly mistake by itself. In addition to tools for taking actions,
tools can also be used for reasoning. For example, if you were to prompt an LLM,
how much would I have after eight years if I deposit $100 into bank
account that pays 5% interest? An LLM might generate an answer like
this which sounds plausible, but the number 147 dollars forts is
not actually the right answer. It turns out LLMs having learned
to predict the nick's worth or maybe even instruction tuned,
are not great at precise math. And just as UI might use a calculator
to calculate the right answer to a problem like this, we can also give the LLM a calculator
tool to help it get the right answer. So rather than having the LLM output,
the answer directly. If the LLM were to output this
after compounding and so on, you would have
calculator 100 times 1.5 that's 5% interest rate
compounded to the power of 8. This can be interpreted as command to
call an external calculator program to explicitly compute the right answer,
which turns out to be $147.74. And plug that back into the text to
give the user the correct dollar figure. So by giving LLMs the ability
to call tools in its output, we can significantly extend the reasoning
or the action taking capabilities of LLMs. Tool used today is an important part
of many LLM applications and of course, designers of these applications should
be careful to make sure that tools aren't triggered in a way that causes
harm or causes irreversible damage. Going beyond tools into
a more experimental area, AI researchers have been examining agents
which go beyond triggering a tool to carry out a single action, but
is exploring whether LLMs can choose and carry out complex sequences of actions. There's a lot of excitement and
research on agents, but this is at the cutting
edge of AI research. It is not yet mature enough to count
on for most important applications. But I want to share with you what many
in the AI community are excited about. If you would ask an agent that's built
on top of an LLM help me research better burger's top competitors, then an agent
might use an LLM as a reasoning engine to figure out what are the steps
it needs to carry out to do your task of researching better
burger's competitors. And this reasoning engine LLM might
decide it needs to search for the list of the top competitors,
then visit the website of each competitor, and finally, for each competitor, write
a summary based on the homepage content. And then perhaps by making a sequence
of calls to this reasoning engine, it may figure out that to search the top
competitors it has to trigger a tool to call web search engine on the query
BetterBurger's competitors. And then after that it
may visit the websites of some of the top competitors
to download their homepages. And then additionally call an LLM yet again to summarize the text
that they found on the website. On the internet there have been
some nice demos of agents, but this technology is not really ready for
primetime yet. But perhaps in the future,
as researchers make it better and better, it'll become more useful. And I think that would be an exciting
future if LLMs as a reasoning engine can help decide what's
the sequence of steps to take safely and responsibly, of course,
to help a user carry out a task. Thank you and congrats on making
it to the very end of week two. We have just one more week
to go in this course. Next week, we'll look at how generative
AI is affecting companies, including how you might be able to come up with
generative AI use cases for your business, as well as look at how generative AI is
affecting society and its impact on jobs. I look forward to seeing you next week.