There are many ways that
generative AI is leading, not just to cost savings
but to revenue growth. But there's so many ways for
general-purpose technology, like generative AI
to create value, to talk about all of these ways. But in this video,
I'd like to take a look at a couple
of the emerging, or the more common paths I'm seeing toward
this type of growth. Let's consider the hypothetical
example of a surgeon preparing to carry out
the surgical operation and then actually carrying
out that operation. Without generative AI tools, they may need a long time to do background
research to understand the medical procedure and how to carry that out in the context
of a specific patient. Then they will go into the operating theater to
carry out that surgery. If generative AI, maybe with custom rag or retrieval augmented
generation tools can help with the research
portion of this work. Then perhaps the time
and effort needed to deeply research the medical
procedure could shrink, and then they still
need to go in to carry out the
surgery after that. This would be an example of how generative AI could
hypothetically help a surgeon or some other
job role where you need to do some research and go and carrying
out the task, with this diagram
illustrating how the workflow or the effort
needed might change. Let's look at the
second example. A lawyer reviewing a
complex legal document without generative AI, first have to gather
information from the client. Sit down with the
client to really understand what's the
purpose of this contract? Who are the people signing it? What are the key business terms? Then they might review
the documents and then finally sit down with the
client to give them feedback. With generative AI, maybe gathering
information takes just about as much
effort as before. But if generative AI can
help read over the document, perhaps this step
can become shorter. But then maybe lawyers
still needs to sit down with the client to give
them detailed feedback. Again, this is a
hypothetical example based on what I'm
seeing complies to, but the details of your
workflow may be different. In contrast, this is what changes the workflow
might look like for reviewing simple as opposed
to complex legal documents. For comparatively
simple legal documents, say a typical non-disclosure
agreement or NDA, there may not be much
information to gather, and so the lawyer
could just review it and then give the
client feedback. Now, with generative AI, maybe the review of the document
can become much faster. Then we use generative AI to create a document to summarize the issues that the lawyer can send to the client and discuss with them
more efficiently. Then the process of
giving client feedback could also become
maybe more efficient. What I'm seeing
is that companies might explore building
a system like this, but after having
built such a system, might decide to further
change the workflow, where after reviewing a
document may decide to add an extra fast human
verification step in the middle just
to double check that what the generative
AI said about the document is
comprehensive and correct. Before then, having
generative AI and the lawyer together try to go to that last step of giving
a client feedback. This type of re-engineering
of workflow is quite common once both generative AI or other AI tools are
inserted into a system. Because when one task is
automated or augmented, it often makes sense to re-think what are the other tasks
that need to be done together in order to deliver
a valuable work product, such as a surgical operation or a review of a legal document. Let's look at a third example
where the redesign of the workflow can become
even more sophisticated. If a marketer has to
write copy for a website, that often is very time consuming and requires
a lot of thought. Then after that,
they might push the new website copy to the website, and that's how a marketer
might market a new product. But with generative AI tools, let's say that the marketer
finds a way to significantly accelerate and make more efficient the writing
of the website copy. Once writing the website
copy is so efficient, it may be worth also
investing in better processes of software to make pushing to the website more efficient. We could end here,
and if we do this, then we just have a
marketer that is able to do their work much more
efficiently than before. But now they're able to write copy and push the website
much more efficiently. Here's how we could rethink
the workflow: which is, when the marketer wants to
market the new product, they could write some
copy, push the website, but then maybe write a
different variation on the copy and push that second
version to the website so they can start to launch an A/B test where
you can now have two different versions of a website copy and start to measure which
one works better. In fact, rather than just
testing two versions, if we are so efficient at writing copy and pushing
copy of the website, maybe we can now generate
four different versions. So it's not testing two, but now four versions. And after collecting data from how all four versions of
the website copy perform, we might end up sitting down and actually spending quite
a long time analyzing the campaign performance to see which website copy
works the best. Then based on that
understanding, go back to further
improve the website copy, maybe by improving
the prompts that we use to generate that copy. In this example, even though it seems like generative
AI can be used just for cost saving to help the
marketer be much more efficient in the process of
writing and pushing copy. We can also take advantage of this efficiency in a
totally different way and write and push and test many more versions
of the website copy. This leads to other
changes as well to the workflow of the
marketer so that this way hopefully
the marketer can deliver much more compelling
marketing campaigns. Now in this video, we've seen a few ways that generative AI can
not just save costs, but lead to significant growth through new types of service
offerings or products. In addition to searching
for growth opportunities by looking at tasks done by
the employees of a company, there's one other framework
for analysis that I found useful that frankly isn't
done as much today, but may be worth
considering for your work, which is rather than
analyzing employees tasks, consider also analyzing the
tasks of your customers. For example, let's say
you offer a product or a service that helps your
customers to build websites. Then I would urge
you to consider listing out what are the tasks that your customers have to do. Not the tasks your
employees have to do, but the tasks your
customers have to do. In this case, maybe
your customers have to first select a template for the website to get
the initial design. Then they have to write
a title for the website. Then select images, write
a copy for the home page, and optimize the copy for
search engine optimization to make it easy to find via search engines and maybe
other tools as well. If you were to analyze the generative AI potential
for your customers tasks, then you may also
identify opportunities, in this case, writing the title and SEO search
engine optimization as places where generative AI
could help your customers. I found that this framework for analysis and brainstorming
can sometimes lead companies to build very different product or services to deliver
to the customers. This can be another recipe for getting lots of
happy customers, and therefore pursuing
growth for your business. There are many ways
that generative AI is creating value and
can lead to growth. In terms of brainstorming
frameworks, I found that looking
at how you can automate the augment
tasks by employees or automate the augment tasks
by your customers to be useful ways to approach thinking about how to
create that value. But if you have some
other idea that isn't arrived at by some of these brainstorming
frameworks, that's great too and I hope you explore building those too. Now, after coming up with an idea for how to use
generative AI in your business, some probably could be done
via a web user interface, but some may require building a custom software application. In the next video, we'll take a look at common
team structures and some best practices for building generative AI software
applications. The good news, which I've alluded to in the
first week as well, is that it may take less
resources than you might think, because generative AI allows for very efficient building of AI applications compared to some earlier ways
of AI technology. But let's go take a look
at that in the next video.