AGI, Artificial
General Intelligence is an exciting concept. I think some of the
confusion around it stems from the use
of the word general. As you know, AI is a
general purpose technology, meaning that it is useful
for many different things. The rise of large
language models has led to single models like ChatGPT that are useful for many things and feel like they
could be general purpose. But a general purpose
technology is not the same thing as artificial
general intelligence. Let's take a look
at what really is the technical definition of AGI. The most widely accepted
definition of AGI is AI. They could do any intellectual
task that a human can. Some definitions actually say any tasks that a
human or mammal can, but I'll stick with
this one for now. For example, if we have AGI, AI would be able
to learn to drive a car through about
20 hours of practice, similar to what a teenager can. This is an example raised by Deep Learning Pioneer Yana Khan. Today, self driving cars
still aren't quite there yet. Certainly not after so low
as 20 hours of practice. If we had AGI, AI would
also be able to do the intellectual
task of completing a PhD thesis level research
after five years of work, or maybe even faster. Today, AI can help with some parts of
brainstorming and writing and maybe be a thought partner for some elements of research. But we're clearly very
far away from this still. If we had AGI, AI would also be able to do
pretty much all the tasks of a computer programmer or really any other
knowledge workers whose contributions to work are to carry out intellectual tasks. Clearly, we're still
very far away from this. I know that there are
different views about how long it would
take to get to AGI. I think we're still
many decades away, maybe even longer,
but I hope we'll get there sometime
in a lifetimes. There are some businesses
that have made much more optimistic forecast
of when we'll get there. But I found that most of
those businesses have changed the definition of AGI and set a much lower bar to get there. I showed the definition of AGI used by one of these
businesses to an economist, friend of mine and
he equipped, boy, if that's the definition of AGI, I think we got
there 30 years ago. It's true that by lowering
the bar sufficiently, we could get there much faster. But for the most widely
accepted definition of AGI, I think we're still
quite a long ways away. One of the exciting things about large language models is that we can use them as
reasoning engines, as I mentioned last week. Maybe we're now
starting to see what a rough outline of what
AGI could be some day. I don't think there's any
fundamental laws of physics that prevents us from
ever creating AGI, which I think will actually be very valuable
to human society. But we'll still need
some significant technical breakthroughs
to get there. One of the hard things about
getting to AGI is that it benchmarks artificial
intelligence against human intelligence. Artificial intelligence and
biological intelligence have progress along two
very different paths. For example, AI learning from far more texts than any human
can read in a lifetime. AI is already far better than any human at certain
tasks already. But to ask AI to do everything, all intellectual tasks
that humans can do, that's still just
a very high bar. But even though we're
still away from AGI, AI is very powerful and it's important that we
use it responsibly. Let's take a look in the next
video at Responsible AI.