Many businesses think of a large or
a small company, say, have many people doing
many different tasks. There's a framework that had originated
in economics due to Erik Brynjolfsson, Tom Mitchell, and Daniel Rock for
analyzing the work tasks for possible automation using AI. And this framework turns out
to be useful not just for economists to understand the financial or
economic impact of AI, but also for businesses identify specific
opportunities to use generative AI. Let's take a look at how to do this. Whereas there's been a lot of discussion,
for example, in the media about will AI automate jobs, it turns out that from
a technical and business perspective, it's more useful to think of AI not as
automating jobs, but as automating tasks. And it turns out most jobs involve
a collection of many tasks. Let's look at an example. A customer service representative
will do a number of different tasks, including maybe answer inbound
phone calls from customers. Answer customer chat queries via a text
rather than a voice or a phone interface. They may check status of customer orders,
keep records interactions, and assess the accuracy of
customer complaints. And if you work in a company with, say,
many customer service representatives, the first step to
analyzing the potential for using generative AI would
be to understand for your business what are the tasks that
the representatives in your company do. After that, we can then take a look
at these different tasks and try to assess their potential for
generative AI to either hope or augment, or to automate these tasks. For example, for generative AI to pick up
the phone and have a long conversation, that's still pretty difficult. So we assess that to be
a lower potential opportunity. But answering text chat with customers
that might have a higher potential, maybe checking status of
customer orders is medium, whereas keeping records of customer
interactions could be high, and assessing accuracy of customer
complaints may be low. All of these examples in the rightmost
column are hypothetical, and the actual impact on your
business will be different and will depend on the specifics
of your business. But after an analysis like this and I'll
go in a little bit into the specifics of how to carry out this analysis, you might
then decide that answering customer chat queries and keeping records of customer
interactions have the highest potential, and therefore,
focus your efforts on those two tasks. Now, the opportunity for generative AI could be either
augmentation or automation. By augmentation, I mean,
we can use AI to help a human with a task. In the customer service representative
context, we might have generative AI recommend a response for a customer
service agent to edit or approve, but not fully automate the sending of
a message back to the customer. So if we're not sure yet if
the generative AI would give good answers, then recommending a response could
speed up the people doing the work, but not fully automated, and
this would be an example of augmentation. And automation would be if we have an AI
system fully automatically perform a task. So if we were to automatically
transcribe and summarize records of customer interactions,
that could be an example of automation. What I see in many applications
is that businesses will sometimes start with augmentation to
maybe let a human double check or finalize the output before it is used. But then as you gain trust and gain
confidence in the output of the generative AI, then the user interface can be
adapted to make the process more and more efficient for humans and
to then gradually shift to what? Higher and higher degrees of
augmentation and perhaps eventually, to full automation. Now, given a list of tasks like this, how do you come up with
this column on the right? How do you evaluate the different
tasks for generative AI potential? The potential for augmenting or automating
a task depends mostly on two things, technical feasibility and business value. So technical feasibility
refers to can AI do it? And also how costly is it to
build an AI system to do it? And with regard to using an LLM, I found the framework we discussed last
week of asking can a fresh college graduate following the instructions
in the prompt complete the task? That could give you a first guess,
an imperfect, not necessarily fully accurate guess, but it gives you a way to think about whether
a certain task may be doable or not. And sometimes, if you're not sure if
an LLM can do a certain task, I would encourage you to try prompting an LLM to
see if you can get the LLM to do that task. And this would be an experiment that you
might be able to do quite quickly, so long as you're not revealing
confidential information. If you take some prompts for, say,
answering customer chat queries and paste them into a large language model, you can maybe quickly get a sense
of how good Rs responds is. And this could help you relatively quickly
assess technical feasibility of using generative AI for a particular cost. And an AI engineer can also help you
assess if more advanced techniques like Rag retrieve, augmented generation,
fine tuning or other techniques can help. And also give you a sense of perhaps,
the complexity and therefore, the cost of building an AI
system to tackle a certain task. In this course, I'm focusing mainly
on technical feasibility using generative AI technology. If you or your team is familiar with other
AI tools such as supervised learning, you can also assess the technical
feasibility of using other tools as well for augmenting or
automating different tasks. Other than technical feasibility, the second criteria I urge you to
think through is the business value. So how valuable is it to use AI to either
augment or automate a particular task? And so the questions I would ask to frame
up my thinking on business value would be things like how much
time is spent on this task? So how much time savings
can we actually realize? Second, I'd also ask, does doing this
task significantly faster, cheaper, or more consistently using AI
create substantial value? While it may seem like augmentation and
automation helps lead to cost savings, we'll see later this week as well
that when you automate a task, sometimes the benefits are much
greater than just cost savings. Because it also leads to rethinking
the workflow around that task. But if what I'm saying doesn't make
sense yet, don't worry about it. We'll see some specific examples
of this later this week. Before I wrap up this video, there's one
more resource I want to share that may be useful for your analysis of how to
break job roles down into tasks. Which is that there are online
occupation databases that you can look up to see what are the tasks
that comprise a certain row. Here's a screenshot from
a website called O*NET, which is a US government funded website. That for the customer service
representative row lists lots of different tasks, including confirm with
customers by telephone or in person, keep records of customer interactions,
and so on. I found that occupation databases
like this tend to be general and not necessarily specific to your company. And so I wouldn't recommend just
using the results from, say, this O*NET database and
assuming it's accurate for your company. There'll usually be some entries there
that you read and feel like, no, this doesn't seem like it
applies to my company. But I found that this is a useful resource
to take a look at just for ideas and to help make sure that maybe you haven't
missed anything when thinking through what are the tasks done by people in
different job roles in your company? O*NET is a little bit US-centric,
but has a nice, easy to use user interface, so
I encourage you to play with it. And there are some other countries as
well that have some other country or region specific databases that you
may be able to find online as well. But I found that for many job roles, O*NET is maybe a reasonable
initial starting point. So that's how you can look
at different job roles and start to break them down into tasks and
analyze the individual tasks for potential for augmentation or automation. And I hope you play with the O*NET
website and get a feel for what different tasks in
different job roles look like. In this video, we went through the
customer service representative example. I'd like to go through with you a few
examples of other job roles as well. So let's go take a look at
that in the next video.