My teams have worked with
or advised many companies, both large and small, on building a large variety of generative AI applications. I'd like to share with
you in this video some of the best
practices I'm seeing as well as what the typical team to get started on such a
project might look like. The most common
roles for building generative AI
applications would be a software engineer who
would be responsible for writing the software application and making sure that
it runs robustly. I've seen that when a
software engineer puts in a bit of effort to learn at least the basics of large language models
and prompting, then they can be
very effective in a small team building
LLM-based applications. If you're on a team that already has some
software engineers, it might be worth encouraging
them to consider spending a little bit of time to learn at least the basics of
LLMs and prompting. A second role that is quite common on teams to build
applications would be the machine learning engineer and machine learning engineers are typically responsible for
implementing the AI system. Many machine learning
engineers have been building AI systems even
before Gen AI took off and found that a
machine learning engineer that spends a bit of effort to learn about LLMs
and ideally not prompting, but some of the more
advanced techniques like RAG and fine-tuning, such a person can
be very effective, playing a role building
LLM applications. Finally, one other role
that I see in some teams, but less common than the
software engineer and machine learning
engineer would be the product manager
and they would be the person with
primary responsibility for identifying and scoping the project and making
sure that whatever is built is useful
for customers. Lastly, how about the
prompt engineer role? There's been a bit of media
hype about this role, but what I'm seeing is that very few companies are hiring
those as a dedicated role. What happened was a small
number of companies advertised a small number
of job openings for very well-paid prompt engineers
and generated a lot of media hype that someone could make a lot of
money by prompting. But if you look at the
actual job description of prompt engineers, prompt engineering jobs actually require doing a lot of
other tasks than writing prompts and they
actually look more like machine learning engineers that have additionally
learned to prompt. Don't buy into hype
prompt engineer role. What actually happens
in practice is that most companies are counting
on machine learning engineers that have also learned
LLMs or learned prompting and it's actually not that easy to get a job and
no other company's hiring that many people whose only
job is to write prompts. If you're building an
LLM-based application, it's often possible to get started with a
pretty small team. I definitely see
companies start to experiment with even
a one-person team, such as a software engineer who has learned some prompting. Or machine learning engineer who's learned a bit
about prompting OMs. Or maybe you could start by yourself by experimenting
and prototyping, using some of the
web interfaces to try to get a sense of
what might be feasible. I do see a lot of
two-person teams as well. If you have two
persons in a team, probably the most
common configuration is a machine learning engineer
plus a software engineer. But I've seen many other
configurations also work well, such as a software engineer who's learned prompting
and a product manager, or two generally enthusiastic people that know a bit
about how to write software and they're
willing to learn how to use these tools to build new
and exciting applications. Sometimes for the larger teams, you also see some other
roles like data engineer, data scientist, project manager, or machine learning researcher. Let me quickly talk over
these roles as well in case you see
them in a company. Data engineer is usually responsible for
organizing the data and ensuring data quality and often also the
security of the data. A data scientist is usually
responsible for analyzing data to make recommendations to guide project or
business decisions. Project manager can
be responsible for coordinating project
execution and machine learning researchers are usually responsible
for developing advanced AI technologies
or adapting advanced AI technologies to the particulars
of your business. Generative AI has
lowered the cost, lowered barrier to entry to building AI-based
applications. If your team have an idea, I'd encourage you to try to find the resources to
prototype and try something out and
see if you can build something for yourself
or for your business. Before we wrap up the section on generative AI and businesses, I'd like to go through
an analysis of how AI is affecting
different job roles as well as different
industry sectors. Let's take a look at
that in the next video.