In the last video, we
looked at writing tasks where you would specify a prompt to the last
large language model, and have it generate a
comparatively longer output than the input prompt. It turns out, is also useful
for many reading tasks, and by that I mean tasks where
you would input a prompt, and then have it
generate usually a similar length or often shorter output
than the input prompt. Let's take a look at
some reading tasks starting with something that
I use myself all the time, which is proof reading. Many times if I'm
writing a piece of text, I will read through it
carefully three or four times myself for spelling
and grammatical errors, and even though I thought I prove read it carefully myself, a line model will still find errors in it that
somehow I had miss. Here's an example of a
prompts that you could try. Proofread the following text, and I find that if you tell it what you want
the text before. Here's text intended for a website selling
children's stuffed toys, and sometimes I ask you
to check for spelling and grammatical errors as well
as awkward sentences, and then have it rewrite
it with corrections. This is a piece of
text with some errors, and the output of the large
language model fixes, snuggle was misspelled and it fixes this little piece
of grammar over here. When I'm writing text myself, that I want to be
quite confident it's free of spelling and
grammatical errors, and sometimes also
awkward sentences, I actually use this myself
to proof read what I write. A second reading task that large language models
are often used for, is to summarize long articles. One of my collaborators, Erik Brynjolfsson, who's
a Stanford professor, once sent me an email
linking to an article that he had written
titled The Turing Trap. I knew it was a good article, but it was a very long
article and I didn't have time to read the whole thing before I responded to his email. I actually use the following
prompt and copy pasted his entire article into an web interface of a
large language model, and had it quickly
generate a summary for me. It turns out this paper
that he had written talks about how human-like
AI offers benefits, but there's a lot to
be done by having AI augment humans
rather than automate. But the point of
Brynjolfsson's article on the Turing Trap was he was advocating that
instead of having AI automate or
replace human work, we should put more
effort into having AI complement or to
augment human work. With a large language model summarizing this long article, I was able to get back on this faster than if I had to read
the entire article myself. By the way, this
is a good article. Eventually I did read the
entire article myself, and I really enjoyed
it, but today, I do sometimes use large
language models to summarize for me things that I don't have
time to read in its entirety. This is a use case that
you could go to one of the web interfaces of
a large language model and use relatively
quickly yourself. Now it turns out there's a software application
version of this too that is taking
off in businesses. Let me illustrate
this with an example. Say you're a manager of a customer service call center where you have many
customer service agents, like this person shown on the
left with the microphone, having phone calls
with customers, like this person
shown on the right. If you have permission to record these phone calls between the
agents and the customers, you can then run the
phone calls through a speech recognition
system to get a text transcript of
the conversation. If you have many customer service agents having
conversations, you end up with a lot
of text transcripts. If you want to review what's going on in
your call center, you probably end up with
too much texts to read. Given a text transcript like this between the
customer and an agent, what really happened
in this call? One use of large language
models would be to have it summarize this
entire conversation and generate a short summary. Like MP401-27KX was reported
as broken, and so on. If you were to take all of these different
text transcripts and have a software application to generate the summaries, then you as a manager of
this can take a quick look at all of these
summaries and just spot if there are any issues, or any trends that you
want to be aware of. A system like this
would be implemented as a software application that
uses a large language model, because it doesn't
really make sense for you or anyone else to copy paste these conversations
one at a time into the website of a large
language model provider. In terms of customer
service interactions, large language models are also used for customer
email analysis. In an earlier video, you saw the example of taking
a customer email, and deciding if it's a
complaint, in this case, no, as well as what department
to route this email. This will be another
software application that uses a large
language model. Let's take a deeper look at how one could build
this application, focusing on the part of deciding what department
to route this email. One thing you could do is
write a prompt to tell the LLM to read the email and decide which department to route it to. You can specify the task
and provide the email. But it turns out that
with a prompt like this, you may find that the algorithm routes it to the complaints
department in this case, which may or may not be a department that exists
in your organization. This would be an example of
where the LLM has been given insufficient context to
know what are the names of the actual departments in your company that it
should choose from. In contrast, if you were to update the prompt as
follows, and say, read the email, choose the most appropriate
department to rouse it to, and choose department only
from the following list. In this case, given the set of choices you
wanted to choose from, routes it to the apparel
department correctly. The process of building
an application using a large language model is
again, not a lot uncommon. To write a prompt that doesn't quite work right the first time, and when you find it, route it to a nonexistent
complaint department, then just update the prompt
and that fixes the problem. One last application
that I want to touch on is reputation monitoring, where you can use
an LLM to build a dashboard to track your
customer sentiments, positive or negative of your business or your
products over time. For example, if you run a restaurant and
occasionally your customers, write online reviews or send your emails describing
their experience, you can then use a
prompt like this, read the following review and classified as having
the positive, negative sentiment,
to have it decide automatically if each review
was positive or negative. In this case, if the food was amazing or service a friendly, that would be classified as
having a positive sentiment. Then by having software count the number of
positive reviews per day, as well as the number of
negative reviews per day, you can build a dashboard
that tracks per day, all the time, how the
sentiments are trending. Looks like the customer
sentiment is pretty positive, but if ever it starts
trending negative like this, with more negative reviews, then this dashboard
can alert you to that maybe something's happening that we should pay attention to, and see if there's something we need to fix at
the restaurant. In this video, we looked at a number of reading
applications, including proof
reading, summarization, email routing, restaurant
review, sentiment analysis. If you can think of a
task where you wish you had someone that could
read a piece of text, and just say a few
things or give a few quick indications of what was in that piece of text, that could be a
good candidate for a reading task to get
an LLM to do for you. Next, let's go onto
the next video to take a look at chatting task.