There are quite a
few web interfaces where you can access a
Large Language Model. ChatGPT is the best known
one and Google's Bard, Microsoft Bing and quite a
few others also work well. Let's take a look
at how people are using these LLM applications. Whether or not you're already
using them regularly, I hope that this will
give you some new ideas for when and how they
could be useful to you. LLMs are giving a new
way to find information. For example, if you ask it what's the capital
of South Africa, it may give a
response like that. Now as we'll see later, LLM can sometimes make facts up. We call this hallucination.. If you're really relying on getting the right
answer the question, it may be useful to
double check the answer with an authoritative source
before counting on it. But in this case, it does get the capital or three capitals
of South Africa right. And sometimes a back and forth with an LLM
is helpful too, for example, if you ask
what does LLM stand for, it might answer, LLM stands for Legum Magister, which is a term used in law, and it's actually a
pretty common use of the acronym LLM
on the Internet. But if you were to then say what about in
the context of AI? Then hopefully it'll
say in the context of AI and LLM refers to a
Large Language Model. Sometimes this
back and forth can help you give the right context, the LLM to give you the
information you're looking for. LLM can also sometimes be a thought partner to help
you think things through. For example, I
often use an LLM to help me refine my writing. If you were to tell it,
rewrite this for clarity, since all around the world are realizing learning has
happened and so on. Leading LLMs are
actually pretty good at rewriting texts for you. Or here's a fun example, if you were to tell it, to write a three hundred word story
involving trucks. Maybe because you have
a child that likes trucks like I do,
my son love trucks. But to encourage them
to brush the teeth, then leading LLMs can actually create pretty fun and
interesting stories. I don't think this
is nearly as good as the stories written
by the great novelist, but for a quick fun thing,
I think it's not bad. Now, there will be times
when you're looking for a piece of information and
you might be wondering, "Should I use web
search or use an LLM?" So If you're playing a
sport and unfortunately wound up with a sprained ankle and want to know
what to do about it, web search can lead you to pretty authoritative
and I think trustworthy sources
that can give advice on how to approach
medical matters. For example, web pages from the Mayo Clinic or
from Harvard Health. These seem like they would
be trustworthy sources for what to do about
the sprained ankle. You could also ask
an LLM what to do about the sprained ankle and it will generate some answer. But given the propensity of LLM's to make things
up and sometimes sound very authoritative and confident when making things up, I would probably want to
double check anything it says about healthcare or medicine before following
the suggestions. Here's one more example. If you want to make a pineapple pie and they're
looking for a recipe, it turns out there
are lots of recipes on the Internet for
a pineapple pie, and picking one created by a trusted website
or a trusted chef, that might get you
pretty good results. Or you can ask an LLM to make one up for you,
and in that case, it'll come up with something
that frankly might be okay, but also has a high chance of being a somewhat
strange recipe. So if you want to
bake a pineapple pie, I would probably go find a
web page because there are multiple web pages
that will give a good solid answer to what's a good
pineapple pie recipe. But if you were to look for
something more esoteric, say your friend challenges
you to make coffee, infuse pineapple pie, there aren't any web
pages that I could find really on coffee
infuse pineapple pies. I don't think there is currently a single web page that gives
a good answer to this. This would be one example where an LLM can help be a
thought partner to think through how you might go about baking a coffee,
infuse pineapple pie. These are just some of the
tasks for which you might find the web user interface
for LLM useful. We'll explore more examples, discuss strengths and
weaknesses of LLMs, and go through some best
practices later this week. But as you can see
from this video, Generative AI is capable of
many different things. In the next video, we'll more systematically
discuss Generative AI as a general purpose technology
as well as start to come up with a way to organize all of these
things that they can do, which includes writing,
reading, and chatting tasks. Let's go take a look at
that in the next video.