Thank you for making it to this last video and for
spending all this time with me. To conclude this course, I want to share with
you how I hope AI can help us build a
more intelligent world. Intelligence is
the power to apply knowledge and skills to
make good decisions. We invest years of our lives and trillions of dollars
on education, all to develop our ability
to make better decisions. It costs a lot to feed, educate, and train
a wise human being. So human intelligence
is expensive. That's why today only
the wealthiest people can afford to hire
large amounts of intelligence by hiring people like a specialist
doctor to examine, carefully think
about, and advise you on a medical condition, or a tutor that takes the
time to really understand your child and gently coach them where they
need the most help. But unlike human intelligence, artificial intelligence
can be made cheap. AI has the potential to give every individual the ability to hire intelligence
at low cost, so that you no
longer need to worry about that huge
bill for visiting a doctor or getting an education and you can hire
an army of smart, well informed staff to think
things through for you. It has the potential to give society more intelligent
guidance on how to approach some of the
biggest problems such as climate
change and pandemics. AI is the new electricity
with the potential to revolutionize all industries and all corners of human life. The fear of AI today is similar to the fear of electricity
when it was new. Back then, people
were terrified of electrocution or of electricity sparking
devastating fires. Today, electricity
still has dangers, but I don't think any of
us would give up light, heat, and refrigeration
for fear of electrocution. AI today still has flaws and there are cases where
it will cause harm. But generative AI
is an exciting leap forward in how much intelligence we can bring to the world. We're also improving
the technology rapidly. As we continue to improve the technology and also continue to build
up more use cases, AI will contribute to longer, healthier, and more
fulfilling lives worldwide. As the technology improves, the problems of AI that
alarm us today will recede. Looking beyond AI, the world has many problems such
as climate change, pandemics, war, and many others, and many of these problems
need urgent solutions. To solve them, we will
need all the intelligence, including all the artificial
intelligence we can master. To conclude, thank you very
much for taking this course. I hope you find
generative AI useful, that you use it responsibly to improve your life and the
lives of people around you, and that through your
use of generative AI you keep on contributing
to building a better, more intelligent world
for everyone. Thank you.