Responsible AI refers to developing and using AI
in ways that ethical, trustworthy, and
socially responsible. Lots of developers, businesses, and governments
care about this and have been having
conversations and also have been working hard
to make sure that AI is built and
used responsibly. Because of all
this attention and effort on responsible AI, we've actually made
quite a lot of progress on this in
the last few years, with for example,
many governments and companies publishing
frameworks for responsible AI. But a lot of work still remains. Let's take a look at what
responsible AI means. While we're still
figuring out a lot of details of how to
build responsible AI, some common themes have emerged. These are some of, I think the key dimensions of
implementing responsible AI. First is fairness
to ensure that AI doesn't perpetuate
or amplify biases. Transparency to make
sure AI systems and the decisions are
understandable to the stakeholders, to the people impacted. Privacy, protecting user data
ensuring confidentiality. Security, safeguarding
AI systems from malicious
attacks, and lastly, ethical use ensuring the AI is used for beneficial purposes. One of the challenges
of these dimensions, or these principles is that the implementation is not
always straightforward. For example, I think at least a couple
thousand years now, humanity has been debating what is ethical and
what is not ethical. There is unfortunately no
clear mathematical definition of ethical versus
unethical behavior. Although, of course, there are many clear cut cases as well. But that's why for individuals, organizations, even countries
to adopt responsible AI, there are certain emerging
best practices to hope, have the discussion and
debate that will lead to better and more
responsible decisions, even when sometimes
the right thing to do could be ambiguous. I want to share a few tips. First, I think it's
important to build a culture that encourages discussion
and debate on ethical issues. If someone on your team has a concern about the
use of responsible AI, it'd be great if they
have the freedom to raise that issue to enable the team to maybe make
a better decision. Second tip is to brainstorm, either by yourself
or with your team, or with an even broader group of stakeholders how
things could go wrong. I've found on many projects
that this brainstorming can help identify potential problems and allow the team to
mitigate them in advance. A checklist for
brainstorming could be the five dimensions I described
on the previous slide. Could the AI system have
issues with fairness, transparency, privacy,
security, or ethical use. For example, on some of the
projects I've worked on, my team has
brainstorm in advance if the AI and we
deployed could have fairness issues such
as if it might exhibit some of the biases that you
saw earlier in this course. Finally, I encourage you to
work of a diverse team and include perspectives
from all stakeholders impacted by the AI system. For many projects, seeking
a diverse set of opinions, as well as speaking
with people that could be quite different
than myself has allowed my team to
understand better the impact of an AI system and led us to make
better decisions. For example, building
systems in healthcare, I found that talking to patients and doctors
gave perspectives different than mine
and really changed the direction we took
our projects in, and working on
retail applications, talking to some of the customers
as well as the sellers, gave my team new ideas that we wouldn't
have had otherwise. I think this pattern is
true for many projects. If you work in a
specific industry, such as healthcare, or
finance, or media or tech, there may be emerging
best practices for responsible AI specific to your industry that
could be useful to consult as well as you
embark on your project. I think we all want to use AI
to make people better off. There's been a few times that I've killed projects that are assessed to be financially
sound on ethical grounds. As you decide what to work
on and what not to work on, I hope you keep on considering responsible AI and only work on projects that you think are ethical and that make
people better off. Now, we're approaching
the end of this course. Let's go to the next video to see a summary of
what we've covered.