In the last two videos, we looked at writing and
reading applications. In this video, we'll look
at chatting applications. In addition to the general purpose chat bots
like ChatGPT, Bard, and Bing chat. Many companies are
looking at whether they can build specialized
chat applications. If you're involved
in a company where you have many people interacting with customers or having certain types of conversations
of similar nature, this may be a case where you
can consider whether or not a specialized Chatbot can help with those types
of conversations. Let's take a look. Earlier
we already saw the example of a customer service
Chatbot that might better take orders
for cheeseburger. Another example of a
specialized Chatbot would be one that specializes in
helping you to plan trips. How can vacation
in Paris inexpensively? A bot could be built to have specialized knowledge
about travel. Today, there are
companies exploring a wide range of advice bots. For example, can a bot give you career coaching advice or give
advice on cooking a meal? A large variety of specialized
bots that are really good at answering questions
about one thing are being developed by
different companies today. Some of these bots
are capable of just having a conversation
and giving advice. Some of these bots can also
interface with the rest of a company's software system
and take actions such as to put in an order for a
cheeseburger to be delivered. Another example of
a bot that might be able to take action would be
a customer service chat bot. Where it turns out that many IT departments get tons
of password reset requests. If a bot can take care of that, then it may take some of the workload off
your IT department. A bot like this that
needs to be send a text message to verify identity and actually
help reset the postware. This is a bot that would
need to be empowered, to actually take
action in the world such as to get a text message
to be sent to someone. Next week we'll discuss more how Chatbots like these are builds that don't
just generate text. But we can actually take action. Because of the number of customer service organizations exploring the use of Chatbot, I want to share with you a
range of the spectrum of common design points being
used by different businesses. For this slide, I
want to focus on text based chat rather than
voice or phone based chat. At one end of the
spectrum would be a customer service
center with only humans. You would have human
service agents typing back and
forth messages like, welcome to Better Burgers and let me play
the order for you. At the opposite end of the
spectrum would be Chatbots only where you just have software responding
directly to customers. But between these two
ends of the spectrum of humans typing of the
keyboard or Chatbots only, there are a couple
common design points. One common design
points would be to have bots support humans. In which a bot will generate a suggested message
for a human but the human service
agent will reopen the message and either
approve it if it looks good. Or have a chance to
edit the message before it is actually sent
back to the customer. This type of design is often also called
human in the loop. Because as a human, there's lot in and it's
part of the process before the message actually gets
sent back to your customer. This is a way to
mitigate the risk of the Chatbot maybe
saying the wrong thing. Because a human can
check over it before it's actually sent
back to your customer. In the next video, when we talk about what
LLMs can and cannot do. We'll go over some of the mistakes that LLMs
can sometimes make. This design helps protect
against those mistakes of LLMs. A little bit further on
the automation spectrum would be if you have a bot to
treach messages for humans. Maybe the bot answer
the easy messages but escalate to a human for the things that isn't
quite ready to handle yet. Sometime back, I actually let the team that build
a bot that would automatically detect
if the customer was asking for a refund request. It turns out that
was about 10% of our total chat call volume. By just detecting that
and automatically giving the customer instructions
just routed 10% or so of the traffic away from the human agents and so to save the agents a lot of time and let the humans focus on servicing
the harder requests. But this type of triagging is
another common design to help your human service agents save time and have to focus
only on the harder cases. That they're more uniquely
qualified to handle. In many customer
service centers, a single human may be simultaneously having
chat conversations with four or eight, or in some extreme cases, maybe in 16 customers
at the same time. With bots supporting the humans, it becomes easier for
a human to manage a larger number of
parallel conversations. Given that bots sometimes
say the wrong thing, I want to share with you what building and deploying a bot often feels like in companies that want to do
this in a safe way. Often, companies will start with an internal facing Chatbot. Many times I would
build a Chatbot, but let only my own
team use it to say, answer the questions
about travel or whatever the bot
is supposed to do. Assuming your
internal team will be more sympathetic and more
understanding of mistakes and be more forgiving if the bot says something
wrong at one time, this gives you some time to assess the behavior
of the bot and also avoid public mistakes that could be embarrassing
for the company. After this looks safe enough, a common next step would be to deploy with
human in the loop. To let the human check
over many of the messages. If feasible, before it actually
goes out to the customer. After doing this for a
while if it looks like the bots messages are generally safe to
send to customers, then you might allow the bot to communicate directly
with customers. Of course, the details of
every business differs. For some applications, it
may not be practical to have humans check over every message because of the
sheer volume of traffic. But depending on the
risk of the bot saying the wrong thing as well
as the volume of traffic, and thus whether or not human
in the loop is feasible, these are some of the
design patterns I've seen companies use to try
to deploy bots safely. To summarize, we've
seen how LLMs can be used for writing,
reading, and chatting. These three categories
are not meant to be an exhaustive list
of what LLMs can do, but they are just a
few broad categories of what you might
really use them for. LLMs can do a lot, but they can't do everything. In the next video, let's
take a look at what LLMs can and cannot do and better
understand the limitations. Let's go on to the next video.