Welcome to generative
AI for everyone. Since the release of
ChatGPT, AI specifically, generative AI has
caught the attention of many individuals,
corporations, and governments. It is a very disruptive
technology that's already changing how many
people learn and work. Many developers think
that generative AI will empower many people and
lead to productivity gains, and also make a
significant contribution to global economic growth. But there could be
downsides as well, since it's job loss or worse that some
people worry about. In this course, you learn
what generative AI is. What it can and cannot do, and also how to use it in
your own work or business. Because generative AI is so new, there is still a lot of
misinformation out there, and so in this course, I hope to convey an accurate
non-technical understanding of what it really is. It also work of you
to think through how you can best make
use of this technology. This course does not assume any technical or
AI background and is designed to be useful
to anyone in business, science, engineering,
the humanities, arts, or other sectors so
that, let's dive in. Generative AI had caught
the mainstream attention starting around
November 2022 when OpenAI released ChatGPT and its momentum has continued unabated according to McKinsey, it could add $2.6 to $4.4 trillion annually
to the economy. Goldman Sachs estimates
it could raise global GDP by 7% in
the next decade, and a study by OpenAI and UPenn estimates that
it could impact 10% of the work or tasks carried out daily by over 80% of
workers in the United States. The same study also estimates that there is a 20% of workers whose work or task is more than 50% impacted
by generative AI, and so studies like these lead to hope for a tremendous
productivity gain, as well as worries about job
loss through automation. What is generative AI? This term refers to AI, or artificial
intelligence systems that can produce
high-quality content, specifically text,
images and audio. One of the best-known
generative AI or GenAI systems is OpenAI's ChatGPT, which can follow instructions to carry out tasks like write three captions for a
social media posts about our new line of
sunglasses for robots, and have a generate a
variety of creative outputs. Many users are familiar
with websites or direct consumer
applications that can generate texts like this. Other examples include Bard, which is offered by Google, as well as Bing Chat
offered by Microsoft. But there are now
many companies that are offering user
interfaces that let you type in some texts called a prompt and will
generate a response. But beyond these
consumer applications, there's one other application
of generative AI that I think may turn out to be even more impactful
in the long term, which is the use of generative
AI as a developer tool. AI is already pervasive in our lives and many of us use it dozens of times a day or more without even
thinking about it. Every time you do a web search on Google or Bing, that's AI. Every time you use
your credit card, there's probably
an AI checking if it really is you using
your credit cards or every time you go to a
website like Amazon or Netflix and it
recommends products of movies to you, that's AI. But many AI systems have been complex and
expensive to build, and generative AI is making many AI applications
much easier to build. This means that the
number and variety of AI product offerings
is blossoming because it's becoming
much cheaper to build certain AI applications
compared to before. In this course,
one of the things we'll touch on a few times as well will be how
generative AI may allow your business to much more inexpensively build very
valuable AI applications, and you learn best practices
for identifying and exploring whether or
not such applications might be useful for
a given business. I've described generative
AI as generating text, images and audio, and of these three
types of contents, the biggest impact so far
has been on text generation. But it can also generate images
where given instructions, a different type of prompt. It can generate beautiful
images like this one, or even a photo-realistic
image like this. Generative AI can
also generate audio. For example, here is
a voice clone of me. Hi, I'm an AI-generated
voice clone of Andrew. Andrew never actually
said these words. Isn't that cool? You can
also put audio together with image or even video generation to create a video
clone of me like this. Hi, I'm a video clone of Andrew, it's nice to meet you. There's a lot going
on in generative AI, and this is an exciting
and disruptive technology that I'm confident you will
find useful in your work. In this course, during
the first week, we'll go through how generative
AI technology actually works and specifically
what it can and cannot do, and you also see a variety of common use cases that
I hope will help spark your creativity
to how you may use it to create value in
your life on your work. In the second week, we'll discuss
generative AI projects. Specifically how to identify useful generative
AI applications, as well as best practices for how to go about
building them, and we'll take a deeper
dive into the range of technology options for building a variety of valuable projects. In the final week,
we will zoom out beyond a single
project to look at how generative AI will impact businesses as well
as society at large. We'll look at some
best practices for how teams where a company
can take advantage of generative AI and also take a
look at AI risks and how to make sure that what we do with AI is responsible
and benefits people. I'm excited to dive into
this material with you. Until that let's go on to the next video where
we'll go through a non-technical description of how generative AI technology actually works. I'll see
you in the next video.