What is Generative AI good for? One of the reasons that
question is a bit hard to answer is because AI is a
general-purpose technology. Unlike a lot of technologies
like a car which is good for transportation or microwave
oven good for heating food, AI isn't useful
just for one thing. It's useful for a lot
of things and that almost makes it
harder to talk about. But let's take a look at what a general purpose
technology really means. Similar to electricity, AI
is useful for many tasks. If we were to ask you,
what is electricity good for or what is the
Internet good for? These are other
general-purpose technologies and it's almost difficult
to think what is electricity good for
because it's so pervasive and it's used around us for
so many different things. In fact, as you saw earlier, supervised learning is useful for many tasks like
spam filtering, advertising, speech
recognition, and many others. Generative AI is like this too. In the last video,
you saw a few of the tasks that an
LLM can carry out, answering certain questions and hoping with writing for example. Let's discuss more
broadly a framework for what tasks LLMs can do. First off, Generative
AI generates texts. Not surprisingly, perhaps
it's useful for writing. I routinely use
Generative AI tools as a brainstorming companion. If you're trying
to name a product, you can ask it to
brainstorm some names and it comes up with some
creative suggestions. LLMs can also be good
at answering questions, and if you give them access to information specific
to a company, they can help
members of your team find information that they need. In this case, about
the availability of parking at the office. In addition to writing, Generative AI is also good for what I'm going
to call reading task, where you're going to give
it a relatively long piece of information and have it
generate a short output. For example, if you run an online shopping
e-commerce company and you get a lot of
different customer emails, Generative AI can read the
customer emails and help you very quickly figure out is this email a complaint or not, which can be used for helping to route complaints to the
appropriate department to be handled quickly. Given, I love my
new llama t-shirt, the fabric is so soft,
that's not a complaint. But if someone emails, I wore my Ilama t-shirt to friend's wedding
and now they're mad at me for stealing the show. Well, maybe that is a complaint. But Generative AI can help you route emails to the
right departments. I call this a
reading task because it's looking at a relatively
long piece of text, that is a customer email, and then generating a
relatively short output, just yes or no, is this
a complaint or not? While supervised learning can also be used for this
particular task, we'll see later
that Generative AI is allowing this source
of reading tasks and other examples that
we'll see later this week to be built much more quickly
and inexpensively. Lastly, Generative AI is also used for many chatbot
types of tasks. Whereas ChatGPT, and Bard, and Bing chat are
general-purpose chatbots. Generative AI technology and large language models is also enabling many special-purpose
chat bots to be built. In this example, here's what
a chatbot might be like for taking online orders
where a user can say, I like a cheeseburger for
delivery and the chatbot acknowledges and puts the
order through for the user. Now in talking
through these tasks, I find that it's sometimes
useful to distinguish between two different types of
LLM-based applications. One is examples like
this brainstorming one, where it could be quite
natural for you to type a prompt like this into ChatGPT, or Bard, or Bing chat, or one of the other free or paid large language models on the Internet and
get a result back. I'm going to call
an application like this a web interface-based
application. In contrast, in the example of recognizing if an email
is a customer complaint, this fits more into a company's
email routing workflow, and it doesn't really
make sense for anyone to cut and paste
customer emails one at a time into a web
interface to get back answers as to which ones are actually
complaint emails. This is an example of an LLM that would
make sense when it's built into a larger
software automation, that in this case helps with a company's automated
email routing. I'm going to call this a
LLM-based software application, the second writing example
of answering HR questions. It turns out this also will make more sense as a software-based
LLM application because it'll need
access to information about your specific company's parking policy for employees, whereas a general large
language model on the Internet probably doesn't
have that information. We'll talk more later
in this course about how this technology
is built and most of the specialized
chatbots will also be software-based
LLM applications. In the rest of this course, I'm going to use these two
symbols to distinguish between web interface use cases and software-based
LLM applications. For many people, it may be easier to get
started with some of the web interface use cases because you can just go to
a website like ChatGPT, or Bard, or Bing and
type in a prompt, and get the result back. But I think both the web
interface-based applications and the software-based
LLM applications are important and will be very useful for individuals
and for companies. I found that the framework
of writing, reading, and chatting as a useful
way to think about the many different tasks that LLM a large language
model can do. In the next three videos, we'll dive more deeply into many different
examples of writing, reading, and chatting tasks. I hope that you'll
find some of them potentially useful
for your own work. I look forward to seeing
you in the next video, we'll talk more about writing, and until then, I look
forward to enjoy my burger.