In a short time, access to generative
AI has spread around the world and given many people the ability to generate
high quality essays, pictures, and audio. With these amazing capabilities have
also come many concerns about AI. I think even before
the rise of generative AI, we've been living in
a time of many anxieties. Anxieties about the environment,
about the legitimacy, incompetence of authority, about
society's ability to treat people fairly, even about what sort of
future awaits us all. AI as a very powerful technology has
inherited a large share of this anxiety. In this video, let's take a look
at some of these anxieties and concern that relate specifically to AI. One widely held concern
about AI is whether it might amplify humanity's worst impulses. LLMs are trained on
text from the Internet, which reflects some of humanity's best
qualities, but also some of its worst, including some of our prejudices,
hatreds, and misconceptions. LLMs learn some of these
negative qualities, too. So will it amplify our worst impulses? In the first week, we had seen an example
of an LLM exhibiting a gender bias with regard to whether a surgeon or a
nurse is more likely to be male or female. To take another maybe slightly
simpler example, if you asked an LLM after its initial training to fill
in the blank and the blank was a CEO, many models would be prone
to choose the word man. And, of course, this is a social bias
that distorts the fact that people of all genders can successfully
lead companies. Text on the Internet represents
our present and our past. And so perhaps it's no surprise that
an LLM learning from this data reflects some of these biases from our past and
our present as well. But perhaps we want LLMs to represent
a hopeful future that is fairer, less biased, and more just,
rather than just data from our past. Fortunately, LLMs are becoming
less biased through fine-tuning, which we discussed in week two. As well as more advanced techniques, such as reinforcement learning
from human feedback or RLHF. In the second week,
there was an optional video on RLHF. Whether or not you watched that, I'd like to briefly describe how RLHF
is helping to make LLMs less biased. RLHF is a technique that trains an LLM
to generate responses that are more aligned with human preferences. The first step of RLHF is to train
an answer quality model called a reward model that
automatically scores answers. So in this step of RLHF, we would prompt
the LLM with many queries like this, the blank was a CEO, and
collect different responses from the LLM. Then we would ask humans
to score these answers. So on a scale of one to five, we give
a high score to highly desirable answers like man or woman, and a low score to
nonsensical answers like airplane. And any answer that contains
a gender bias or racial bias or contains a gender or
racial slur will receive a very low score. Using the prompt, the responses, and the scores assigned by humans as data,
we would then use supervised learning to train a reward model that
can input a response and score it. We do this because asking humans
to score responses is expensive. But once a supervised learning algorithm
has learned to automatically score responses, we can score a lot of responses
automatically and inexpensively. Finally, now that the LLM has a learned reward model to score as
many responses as it wants, we can have the LLM generate a lot of
responses to many different prompts. And have it further
train itself to generate more responses that get high scores and
that, therefore, reflect answers that humans
perceive as more desirable. RLHF has been shown to make LLMs much
less likely to exhibit bias according to gender, race, religion, and
other human characteristics. It makes LLMs less prone to
hand out harmful information, and also makes it more respectful and
hopeful to people. Already today,
the output of LLMs are much safer and less biased than, say,
the average piece of text on the Internet. But technology like this
is continuing to improve, and so the degree of an LLM amplifying
humanity's worst qualities is continuing to decrease as they
are becoming better aligned to the future. I think we all hope LLMs will reflect of a
fairer, less biased, and more just world. A second major concern is who among us
will be able to make a living when AI can do our jobs faster and
cheaper than any human can? Will AI put many of us out of a job? To understand whether this is likely
to happen, let's look at radiology. In 2016, many years ago, Geoff Hinton,
who's a pioneer of deep learning and a friend of mine, said that AI was
becoming so good at analyzing X-ray images that in five years,
it could take radiologists' jobs. He made this remarkable statement that
if you work as a radiologist, you're like a coyote that's already over the edge
of the cliff, but hasn't yet looked down. So it doesn't realize there's
no ground underneath them. People should stop
training radiologists now. It's just completely obvious
that within five years, deep learning is going to do
better than radiologists. But we're now well past five
years since this statement, and AI is far from replacing radiologists. Not a single one of my radiologist
friends has lost their job to AI. Why is that? Two reasons. First, interpreting X-rays turns out
to be harder than it looked back then, though we are making rapid progress. But second and more important, it turns out that radiologists do a lot
more than just interpret X-ray images. According to O*NET,
radiologists do about 30 different tasks, one of which is interpreting X-rays and
other medical images, but they do many other tasks. And it has been difficult so far for AI
to do all of these tasks at human level. To list out some of the other
tasks that radiologists do, in addition to interpreting X-rays,
they also operate imaging hardware, communicate exam results with patients or
other stakeholders. Respond to complications during procedure, such as if a patient has a panic
attack during the imaging procedure. They document procedures and
outcomes, and many other tasks. And I think that AI does have
a high potential of augmenting or assisting the interpretation of X-rays. And technically, this has largely been done with supervised
learning rather than generative AI. But for AI to completely automate all
of these tasks is still far away. So that's why I think that Curtis
Langlotz, who is a professor of radiology at Stanford University and
a friend and colleague, says it well. He said that AI won't
replace radiologists, but radiologists that use AI will
replace radiologists that don't. And I think we will see this
effect in many other professions. Mind you, I don't mean to minimize the challenge
of helping many people adopt AI or the suffering of the much smaller number
of people whose jobs will disappear. Or our responsibility to make sure
people affected have a safety net and an opportunity to learn new skills. But every wave of technology, from the
steam engine to a chassis to the computer, has created far more
jobs than it destroyed. As I mentioned earlier this week, in most
waves of innovation, businesses wound up focusing on growth, which has unlimited
potential rather than cost savings. So AI will bring a huge amount
of growth and create many, many new jobs in the process. And this brings us to what might be
the biggest anxiety, will AI kill us all? We know that AI can run amok. Self-driving cars have crashed,
leading to a tragic loss of life. In 2010, an automated trading algorithm
caused the stock market crash. And in the justice system,
AI has led to unfair sentencing decisions. So we know that poorly designed
software can have a dramatic impact. But can it lead to
the extinction of humanity? I don't see how. I know there are different views on this,
but recently, I sought out some people
concerned by this question, and I spoke of some of the smartest
people in AI that I know. Some were concerned about a bad actor
using AI to destroy humanity, say, by creating a bioweapon. Others were worried about AI inadvertently
driving humanity to extinction. Similar to how humans have driven
many other species to extinction through simple lack of awareness that
our actions could lead to that outcome. I tried to assess how realistic these
arguments are, but I found that they were not concrete and not specific about
how AI could lead to human extinction. Most of the arguments boil
down to it could happen. And some will add that this is
a new type of technology, so things could be different this time. But that statement is true for every new type of technology
that's been invented by humanity. And proving that AI couldn't lead to human
extinction is akin to proving a negative. I can't prove that AI superintelligence
won't wipe out humanity, but it's just that nobody seems
to know exactly how it could. But I do know this, humanity has ample
experience controlling many things far more powerful than any single person,
such as corporations and nation states. And also that there
are many things we can't fully control that are nonetheless
valuable and safe. For example, take airplanes, which today,
we still can't fully control because winds and turbulence will
buffet airplanes around, or the pilot flying the plane
may make a mistake. In the early days of aviation,
airplanes killed many people. But we learned from those experiences and
built safer airplanes, and also devised better rules
by which to operate them. And today, many people can step into an
airplane without fearing for their lives. Similarly for AI,
we are learning better to control it, and it is becoming safer every day. Finally, if we look at
the real risks to humanity, such as climate change leading to massive
depopulation of parts of the planet, or hopefully not the next pandemic. Or even much lower chance, but
another asteroid striking the planet and wiping us out like the dinosaurs. I think that AI will be a key part
of our response to such challenges. So I know that there are different
views on this right now. But my view is that if we want
humanity to survive and thrive for the next thousand years, AI increases
the odds of us successfully getting there. Computers are already smarter in some
narrow dimensions than any human. But AI continues to improve so fast
that many people find it hard to predict exactly what it will be
like in a few years. I think the root cause of some of these
concerns, including extinction risks, is that many people
are unsure when AI will reach Artificial General Intelligence, or AGI. Meaning, AI that could do any
intellectual task that human can. Let's take a deeper look
at AGI in the next video.