As your RAG system matures, a powerful way to improve its performance is to start introducing agentic workflows. An agentic workflow means using several LLMs throughout your RAG system, each one responsible for a single step in the overall process. You've already seen this idea, with LLMs used to perform tasks like query expansion, prompt rewriting, or citation generation. There's a huge array of compound systems like this you could build. So let's look into how you can further improve the quality of your RAG system by building it in an agentic way. Typically, the way you use a language model is to feed it a prompt, and it spits out a response. Simple. In an agentic system, there's two main changes to this model. First, tasks are now treated as a series of steps and decisions, each of which can be completed by a call to a different LLM. Second, LLMs are given access to a wider array of tools like a code interpreter, web browser, or in the case of RAG, a vector database of information to reference. Here's one possible agentic workflow for a RAG system. A user submits a prompt to the system, and it is first processed by a small router LLM. This LLM's job is to determine if the prompt actually requires a call to the vector database. It's been specially tuned for this task, and will only output either yes, meaning the prompt does justify retrieval from the database, or no, meaning the prompt can be answered without retrieval. Based on the router LLM's decision, the prompt is either sent to the vector database for retrieval, or skips that step. If no retrieval is completed, the prompt is sent directly to a separate LLM to generate a response. If a retrieval step was requested, a separate evaluator LLM is used to determine if the retrieved documents are sufficient to answer the question. Based on this evaluator LLM's decision, additional retrievals from the vector database may be requested. Once sufficient information has been retrieved, an augmented prompt is constructed and given to the LLM to generate a response. At this point, a final LLM goes through this response and adds citations. This is just one possible agentic RAG system, but it highlights a few key points that are true for any agentic system. First, you can think of designing an agentic system essentially as drawing a flowchart. Each LLM in the diagram is still just taking text input and generating text output, but the system is set up so that each LLM is completing one task on the prompt's journey through the RAG system. Second, you don't need to use the same LLM for each step in the workflow. The router and evaluator LLM in this agentic system could be lightweight models that are fast and cheap to run since they have a single and relatively simple task. You could then use a larger model to generate the draft response and pick a model that specializes in citation generation for that step. As you think about adding agentic workflows to your RAG application, here's a few common patterns to consider. A sequential workflow just moves output in a linear fashion through a series of LLMs. This might mean that every prompt sent to your system moves through an LLM-based query parser, query rewriter, and citation generator as part of the generation process. Each LLM just focuses on one step of the overall process and can therefore specialize at that step. A conditional workflow uses an LLM to decide which of many paths a prompt should follow. You just saw a router LLM implement this workflow to decide if a retrieval is necessary to respond to a prompt. You could also use a router to determine which of several LLMs with different strengths and specializations should be used to generate a response. An iterative workflow works similarly to a conditional workflow, but it routes the prompt to an earlier point in the overall system, forming a loop. For example, if your RAG system is designed to generate code that integrates with an existing code base, it's possible the system would need multiple attempts to write working code. An evaluator LLM could be used to assess each draft, perhaps with the assistance of a code interpreter, and provide feedback until it deems the solution suitable. Finally, you can create parallel workflows in which an orchestrator language model breaks a prompt into multiple distinct tasks and assigns each task to separate LLMs. On the other end, a synthesizer language model recombines their work. If your application is, say, comparing the key insights from two research papers, you might want two different LLMs to summarize and evaluate each one and then have the orchestrator combine their findings. For simple agentic systems, you can just implement the logic of your desired workflow yourself. As things get more complicated, however, there's a wide variety of tools, libraries, and platforms designed to help you build and manage an agentic system. The creative possibilities when building agentic systems are truly endless. There's also an important mindset shift at play here. LLMs start to look a little less like standalone solutions and more like modular pieces that fit inside a larger workflow. Suddenly, you're more than happy to use smaller models or models that only excel at a few tasks because their capabilities are well aligned with the portions of the workflow they're responsible for. Adding agentic components can give you the flexibility to build even more capable rack systems.